WARNING LETTER

November 8, 2022

Dear Edward O’Neill:

During an inspection of your firm located in Ottawa, Canada on May 16, 2022, through May 19, 2022, an investigator from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) determined that your firm manufactures the i-STAT cTnI Test intended for the quantitative measurement of cardiac troponin I in whole blood or plasma. These measurements are intended to be used in the diagnosis and treatment of myocardial infarction and as an aid in the risk stratification of patients with acute coronary syndromes with respect to their relative risk of mortality. Under section 201(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act), 21 U.S.C. § 321(h), these products are devices because they are intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions or in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or function of the body.

This inspection revealed that the i-STAT cTnI cartridges are adulterated under section 501(f)(1)(B) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 351(f)(1)(B), because your firm does not have an approved application for premarket approval (PMA) in effect pursuant to section 515(a) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 360e(a), or an approved application for an investigational device exemption under section 520(g), 21 U.S.C. § 360j(g), for this device. This device is also misbranded under section 502(o) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 352(o), because your firm did not notify FDA of its intent to introduce the devices into commercial distribution in a notice or other information respecting modifications to these devices was not provided to FDA, as required by section 510(k) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 360(k), and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3).

Your firm’s i-STAT cTnI Test was originally cleared for use with heparinized whole blood and plasma in K031739 and cleared for use with whole blood (not heparinized) in K051433. However, you have made multiple significant design changes to the i-STAT cTnI cartridge since 2003. For example:

1. Your firm implemented change (b)(4) "Alternate source of (b)(4)" (effective: 05- May-2022) to update the material specification ((b)(4)) of the (b)(4) which is obtained from Sigma and used as an Interferent Eliminating Proteins (IEP) in the immune base prints. This supplier part number change was due to a process change that replaces monoclonal antibody production in live (b)(4) with production in cell culture. The alternate source of IgM that was used to reduce interference could have a direct impact on device performance due to different interference relative to the original device and could change the ability of the device to accurately measure the troponin concentration. This change of (b)(4) to reduce interference significantly modified existing risks and could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the devices and therefore, requires submission of a new premarket notification (510(k)).

2. Your firm implemented change (b)(4) "Modification of cTnI Sample Inlet Print for Mitigation of Interferences in the Field" (effective: 06- Mar-2009) to increase the amount of caprine and murine IgG, and introduce murine IgM in the sample inlet (b)(4) to reduce interferences. The change in reagent to reduce interference could have a direct impact on the device performance due to different interferences relative to the original device and could change the ability of the device to accurately measure the troponin concentration. This change of reagent to reduce interference significantly modified existing risks and could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the devices and requires submission of a new premarket notification (510(k)).

3. Your firm implemented (b)(4) "Update supplier of (b)(4) for cTnI Base print" (effective: 11-Feb- 2022) to allow the recipe for cTnI baseprint to use a secondary (b)(4) part number due to global supply shortage with the current supplier. The (b)(4) from the current supplier is (b)(4) and requires reconstitution prior to use, whereas the (b)(4) material from the secondary supplier is already in solution. A change to the secondary (b)(4) could have a direct impact on the device performance due to different interferences relative to the original device and could change the ability of the device to accurately measure the troponin concentration. This change of (b)(4) to reduce interference significantly modified existing risks and could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the devices and requires submission of a new premarket notification (510(k)).

4. Your firm implemented (b)(4) "cTnI (b)(4) Cartridge and Tape Gasket Promote to Production" (effective: 18-Jul- 2012) to modify the cTnI cartridge and gasket dipper/Durapel diameters for use with (b)(4)" chips to maintain product performance. This change could affect the signal reading of the cartridge and therefore impact the device’s ability to accurately measure troponin concentrations. This change of sensor chip specification significantly modified existing risks and could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the devices and requires submission of a new premarket notification (510(k)).

Inaccurate troponin results, a time-critical analyte, due to these changes, may lead to false negative or false positive results which may lead to significant consequences to patients including death. The above-referenced changes, individually and collectively, significantly modified existing risks to the subject device and could significantly impact safety and effectiveness of the subject device. Your firm did not notify FDA of these significant changes before introducing the modified i-STAT cTnI cartridges into commercial distribution, and FDA has not received a new 510(k) for these modified devices to date. As a result, your current cTnI cartridge is unapproved because it is no longer considered to be substantially equivalent to the predicate devices described in your existing 510(k)s.

Our inspection also revealed that these devices are adulterated within the meaning of section 501(h) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 351(h), in that the methods used in, or the facilities or controls used for, their manufacture, packing, storage, or installation are not in conformity with the current good manufacturing practice requirements of the Quality System regulation found at Title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 820. We received a response from you dated June 10, 2022, concerning our investigator’s observations noted on the Form FDA 483 (FDA 483), List of Inspectional Observations, which was issued to your firm. We address this response below, in relation to each of the noted violations. These violations include, but are not limited to, the following:

1. Failure to adequately establish and maintain procedures for the identification, documentation, validation or where appropriate verification, review, and approval of design changes before their implementation, as required by 21 CFR 820.30(i). For example, during the inspection the investigator questioned your firm’s design personnel about cumulative changes. Your firm responded that you did not consider the cumulative effect of design changes over time and never compared the performance of the modified device change to the originally cleared device either through design controls or regulatory review. Further, your firm has made multiple design changes to the i-STAT cTnl (white) cartridge from 2003 to 2022 without assessing the cumulative effect of the changes on the device performance or comparing the modified device to the original or most recently cleared device design.

We reviewed your response and concluded that it is not adequate. You provided a summarized “Review of the i-STAT IH/TH sensor chip specification change and significant design changes for the i-STAT cTnI cartridge since 2003” dated June 10, 2022 in attachment 1.10 which included final product test disposition data from the last 10 cTnI lots in 2022 using the cTnI cartridges. A comparison of your current device’s specifications (2022) and original device’s specifications (2003) for the i-STAT Troponin I (cTnI) cartridge sensor chip was provided. However, the analytical sensitivity and the precision testing in whole blood and control fluids your firm used as part of its validation for design changes to the i-STAT cTnI cartridge has not demonstrated that this testing accurately and reliably predicts the impact of such changes on the clinical performance of your device. For example, the testing used to support your firm’s claims did not impact the performance of your device did not include a comparison of the modified device to the original device and key performance data such as clinical accuracy were not documented to support these design changes. You should provide a revised copy of your firm’s design control procedures which address the need for a cumulative review of design changes and their impact on the original device design, and evidence of training on the new or revised document. You should also conduct a systemic review of all device changes to determine if other device design changes were inadequately evaluated or documented.

2. Failure to adequately maintain all records required by 21 CFR 820 at the manufacturing establishment or other location that is reasonably accessible to responsible officials of the manufacturer and to employees of FDA designated to perform inspections. Such records, including those not stored at the inspected establishment, shall be made readily available for review and copying by FDA employee(s), as required by 21 CFR 820.180. For example, during the inspection the investigator asked to review a copy of the original design to compare to any current changes. Your firm could not locate the original cartridge design files because the person in charge of storing the cartridge design history files had retired from the company and your firm had been trying to locate the person in retirement to try to find where the original design files where stored.

The adequacy of your firm’s response cannot be determined at this time. Your response states that your firm was able to locate the original drawing of the TH (IH1) chip containing the analyte and reference sensors for the i-STAT Troponin I (cTnI) test which were provided in attachment 1.11. You stated that the original record was in a location not referenced in (b)(4), Quality Record Storage Procedure supporting documentation (b)(4) Record Location, although the location was being maintained as a record location. You also stated that you performed the correction including the update of the record location documents as required, reviewing and summarizing the current and original specifications for the i-STAT Troponin I (cTnI) cartridge sensor chip and provided in summary attachment 1.10 (Review of the i-STAT IH/TH sensor chip specification change and significant design changes for the i-STAT cTnI cartridge since 2003). You further stated that your firm performed systemic correction action including updating the (b)(4) Record Location – Ottawa to include an additional cabinet location and completed all necessary personnel training. Your firm’s corrective actions will be verified at the next inspection.

For a device requiring premarket approval, the notification required by section 510(k) is deemed satisfied when a PMA is pending before the agency [21 CFR 807.81(b)]. The kind of information that your firm needs to submit in order to obtain approval or clearance for the device is described on the Internet at http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/HowtoMarketYourDevice/default.htm. The FDA will evaluate the information that your firm submits and decide whether the product may be legally marketed. Your firm should take prompt action to address any violations identified in this letter. Failure to adequately address this matter may result in regulatory action being initiated by the FDA without further notice.

Other federal agencies may take your compliance with the FD&C Act and its implementation regulations into account when considering the award of federal contracts. Additionally, should FDA determine that you have Quality System regulation violations that are reasonably related to premarket approval applications for Class III devices, such devices will not be approved until the violations have been addressed.

Please notify this office in writing within fifteen business days from the date you receive this letter of the specific steps your firm has taken to address the noted violations, including an explanation of how your firm plans to prevent these violations, or similar violations, from occurring again. Include documentation of the corrections and/or corrective action (which must address systemic problems) that your firm has taken. If your firm’s planned corrections and/or corrective actions will occur over time, please include a timetable for implementation of those activities. If corrections and/or corrective actions cannot be completed within fifteen business days, state the reason for the delay and the time within which these activities will be completed. Please provide a translation of documentation not in English to facilitate our review. We will notify you regarding the adequacy of your firm’s response(s) and the need to re-inspect your firm’s facility to verify that the appropriate corrections and/or corrective actions have been made. If you believe that your products are not in violation of the FD&C Act, include your reasoning and any supporting information for our consideration as part of your response.

Your firm’s response should be sent via email to CDRHWarningLetterResponses@fda.hhs.gov or by mail to Food and Drug Administration, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Office of Regulatory Programs, Division of Regulatory Programs 2, FDA Regulatory Inspections and Audits Team, White Oak Building 66, 10903 New Hampshire Ave., Silver Spring, MD 20993. Refer to CMS case #640946 when replying. If you have any questions about the contents of this letter, please contact: Xiaofen Huang at 240-402-1115.

Finally, you should know that this letter is not intended to be an all-inclusive list of the violations at your firm’s facility. It is your firm’s responsibility to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations administered by FDA. The specific violations noted in this letter and in the Inspectional Observations, FDA 483, issued at the close of the inspection may be symptomatic of serious problems in your firm’s manufacturing and quality management systems. Your firm should investigate and determine the causes of any violations and take prompt actions to address any violations and bring the products into compliance.

Sincerely yours,

/S/

Timothy T. Stenzel, M.D., Ph.D.

Director

OHT 7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics

Office of Product Evaluation and Quality

Center for Devices and Radiological Health

CC:

Kerry Caldwell

Abbott Point Of Care

Kerry.caldwell@abbott.com
