Department of Health and Human Services
Food and Drug Administration

WARNING LETTER

September 4, 2026

Mr. Robert T. Fulop
Director of Site Operations
Bausch & Lomb Inc.
8500 Hidden River Parkway
Tampa, FL 33637-1014

FDA Establishment Identifier: 1000113778

Dear Mr. Fulop:

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER),
inspected your drug manufacturing facility, Bausch & Lomb Inc., located at 8500 Hidden River
Parkway, Tampa, FL, from March 12 to March 20, 2026.

This warning letter summarizes significant violations of Current Good Manufacturing Practice
(CGMP) regulations for finished pharmaceuticals. Your firm manufactures sterile prescription
and over-the-counter (OTC) drug products, including "(b)(4)", produced by aseptic processing.

Because your methods, facilities, or controls for manufacturing, processing, packing, or holding
do not conform to CGMP, your drug products are adulterated within the meaning of section 501(a)(2)(B)
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.

1. Your firm failed to establish an adequate system for monitoring environmental conditions in
aseptic processing areas (21 CFR 211.42(c)(10)).

Your environmental and personnel monitoring program did not sufficiently monitor significant
locations (e.g., phones used in the aseptic processing area). From 2023 to 2025 you recovered
gram-negative organisms, including Serratia marcescens and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, from
your ISO 5 areas. Dynamic smoke studies failed to demonstrate unidirectional airflow protection
in your restricted access barrier system (RABS) lines.

2. Your firm failed to establish and follow appropriate written procedures designed to prevent
microbiological contamination of drug products purporting to be sterile (21 CFR 211.113(b)).

Operators were observed reaching over exposed sterile containers during filling operations and
failing to disinfect equipment between uses. Your July 2025 media fill failed, with recovery of
Neovaginatispora magiferae and Geodermatophilus obscurus.

Microorganisms recovered from your facility, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aspergillus
brasiliensis, were the same genus and species as those recovered from several consumer complaint
samples for your "(b)(4)" ophthalmic products.

Given the potential that distributed products may be contaminated, your firm should conduct a
risk assessment of products currently within expiry and determine whether market action, including
recall, is warranted.

Within 15 business days of receipt of this letter, respond in writing describing the specific steps
you have taken to correct these violations.

Sincerely,
/S/
Director
Office of Manufacturing Quality
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
