June 8, 2026
WARNING LETTER
Reference number: MARCS-CMS 728282
To HydraMed:
This warning letter advises you of significant violations identified during a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) review of your website. Promptly address the violations described herein without delay, including ensuring that appropriate resources are allocated to fully address the violations and prevent their recurrence. The violations cited in this letter are not intended to be an all-inclusive list of violations that may exist in connection with your products. It is your responsibility to ensure that your firm complies with all requirements of federal law, including FDA regulations. Failure to adequately address any violations may result in legal action without further notice, including, without limitation, seizure and injunction.
FDA Review
Violations were identified and documented during a review of HydraMed’s website, https://hydramed.com, FDA Establishment Identifier (FEI) 3044021141, in March 2026. FDA observed that your website offers compounded drug products, including semaglutide and tirzepatide products.1 As described below, your website’s false or misleading claims concerning compounded semaglutide and tirzepatide products under sections 502(a) and 502(bb) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) [21 U.S.C. §§ 352(a) and 352(bb)], result in products being introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce in violation of section 301(a) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 331(a)]. This review was conducted under FDA’s public health responsibilities to protect the public from unsafe, ineffective, and poor quality drug products.
Violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
The following are violations identified during our review. As a reminder, this is not an all-inclusive list of violations that may exist in connection with your products or operations.
Your representations regarding compounded semaglutide and tirzepatide products are false or misleading. Under section 502(a) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 352(a)], a drug product is misbranded if its labeling is false or misleading in any particular. Furthermore, under section 502(bb) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 352(bb)], a compounded drug product is misbranded if its advertising or promotion is false or misleading in any particular.
More specifically,
1. The compounded semaglutide and tirzepatide products displayed on your website identify “HydraMed” on the pictured label, suggesting HydraMed is the compounder of those drugs when in fact it is not.2
2. Your website claims that the compounded drug products it offers are sourced from an “FDA-approved pharmacy.” Compounding facilities, including pharmacies and outsourcing facilities, are not “FDA-approved” or “FDA-licensed” entities. The FD&C Act does not establish an “FDA-approved” or “FDA-licensed” designation for pharmacies or outsourcing facilities.3 Therefore, representing a compounding pharmacy or outsourcing facility as “FDA-approved” or “FDA-licensed” is false and misleading, as these terms imply a formal authorization that FDA does not grant to such entities or their compounded products.
Accordingly, these representations cause your compounded drug products to be misbranded under sections 502(a) and 502(bb) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. §§ 352(a) and (bb)]. The introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of these misbranded drug products is a prohibited act under section 301(a) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 331(a)]. The violations described in this letter put you on notice of our concerns but may not represent an exhaustive list of violations. Please be advised, the receipt in interstate commerce of misbranded drug products, and the delivery or proffered delivery thereof, is also a violation of section 301(c) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 331(c)].
You are responsible for investigating and determining the root causes of any violations and implementing corrective and preventative measures to ensure future and sustained compliance so that these violations and any others do not occur. It is your responsibility to ensure that your operations comply with all requirements of federal law, including FDA regulations. For example, compounded drug products must meet the conditions in sections 503A or 503B of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. §§ 353a or 353b] in order to be exempt from certain requirements under the FD&C Act, including the new drug approval requirements.
Conclusion
As previously stated, you are responsible for investigating and determining the root causes of any violations and implementing corrective and preventative measures to ensure future and sustained compliance so that these violations and any others do not occur.
Send your written response to the Office of Compounding Quality and Compliance (OCQC) within the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER)’s Office of Compliance at compoundinginspections@fda.hhs.gov within fifteen (15) business days of receipt of this letter. Identify your written response with reference number MARCS-CMS 728282 and Response to Warning Letter in the subject line of the email. Include the specific steps you have taken to correct any violations, an explanation of each step being taken to prevent the recurrence of violations, as well as copies of related documentation. Such steps may include the following:
1. Identifying the entities that produce the compounded drug products offered on your website;
2. Providing a representative sample of labeling for such drug products; and
3. Addressing other website claims that contain false or misleading representations about your compounded drug products or demonstrating that such claims have been modified or removed in light of FD&C Act §§ 502(a) and 502(bb) [21 U.S.C. §§ 352(a) and 352(bb)].
This letter notifies you of our concerns and provides you an opportunity to address them. If you have information that you believe demonstrates that your products are not in violation of the FD&C Act and FDA regulations, include that information for our consideration. If you cannot completely address this matter within fifteen (15) business days, state the reason for the delay and the time within which you will do so.
If you are not located in the U.S., please note that drug products that appear to be misbranded may be detained or refused admission. We may advise the appropriate regulatory officials in the country from which you operate that your drug products referenced above appear to be misbranded drug products that cannot be legally sold to consumers in the U.S.
Please note FDA posts warning letters on www.FDA.gov.
Sincerely,
/S/
Matthew J. Lash, JD
Acting Director
Office of Compounding Quality and Compliance
Office of Compliance
Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
____________________________
1 The semaglutide and tirzepatide products offered on your website are drugs within the meaning of section 201(g) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 321(g)] because they are intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of diseases and/or because they are intended to affect the structure or any function of the body. Further, they are “new drugs” within the meaning of section 201(p) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 321(p)] because they are not generally recognized as safe and effective for their labeled uses.
2 See 21 C.F.R. § 201.1(h)(2) (“The appearance on a drug product label of a person’s name without qualification is a representation that the named person is the sole manufacturer of the product. That representation is false and misleading, and the drug product is misbranded under section 502(a) of the act, if the person is not the manufacturer of the product in accordance with this section.”); see also FD&C Act § 503(b) [21 U.S.C. § 353(b)], FD&C Act § 503B(a)(10)(A)(ii) [21 U.S.C. § 353b(a)(10)(A)(ii)]. We note that 21 C.F.R. § 201.1(a) does not apply to drug products dispensed in accordance with section 503(b)(1) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 353(b)(1)]. However, see 45 Fed. Reg. 25760, 25765 (Apr. 15, 1980) (“…if the label of a prescription drug product dispensed by a pharmacist does contain a representation as to the manufacturer, packer, or distributor, it must comply with all the provisions of § 201.1….”). In addition, the labels of your drug products as depicted on the website do not indicate that they are dispensed under section 503(b)(1) of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 353(b)(1)], nor do they appear to comply with the requirements of section 503(b)(2) [21 U.S.C. § 353(b)(2)].
3 While an entity may elect to register with FDA as an outsourcing facility under section 503B of the FD&C Act [21 U.S.C. § 353b], this registration does not constitute FDA approval or licensure of the facility or its compounded drug products. Neither compounders operating under section 503A nor outsourcing facilities operating under section 503B undergo FDA premarket review or approval of their compounded drug products. Compounded drug products are not FDA-approved drugs; they have not been evaluated by FDA for safety, effectiveness, or quality before marketing as is required for new drug applications (NDAs) or abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs).
