WARNING LETTER
CMS #719428
January 8, 2026
Dear Ms. Peña:
During a Remote Regulatory Assessment of your firm located in Reynosa, Tamaulipas, Mexico from July 23, 2025 through August 8, 2025, an investigator from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), reviewed the records you submitted in response to our May 22 and June 6, 2025, requests for records and other information pursuant to section 704(a)(4) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) for your facility, determined that your firm manufactures insulin infusion sets for subcutaneous insulin delivery in diabetic patients. These infusion sets are sold under the Unomedical brand name and are also distributed under other brand names including, but not limited to, MiniMed Mio, MiniMed Mio 30, MiniMed Silhouette, MiniMed Sure-T, MiniMed Quick-Set, MiniMed Mio Advance, Extended Wear Infusion Set, i-port ADVANCE, and Convatec’s inset and contact detach infusion sets for use with compatible third-party insulin pumps. Under section 201(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act), 21 U.S.C. § 321(h), these products are devices because they are intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions or in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or function of the body.
Quality System Regulation Violations
This inspection revealed that these devices are adulterated within the meaning of section 501(h) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 351(h), in that the methods used in, or the facilities or controls used for, the manufacture, packing, storage, or installation of your device are not in conformity with the current good manufacturing practice requirements of the Quality System regulation found at Title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 820. We received your responses dated August 29, 2025, September 29, 2025, and November 14, 2025 concerning our investigator's observations noted during the Remote Regulatory Assessment which were issued to your firm.
We address these responses below, in relation to each of the noted violations. These violations include, but are not limited to, the following:
1) Failure to validate processes whose results cannot be fully verified by subsequent inspection and test, as required by 21 CFR 820.75(a). For example, the water leak test method used for in-process and final inspection, complaint investigations, and for tests performed during validations and revalidations has not been validated according to your firm's own procedures, despite being critical for detecting leaks in the insulin infusion sets that could cause insulin under-delivery and diabetic ketoacidosis. Between January 2023 and June 2025, your firm has received more than 5,000 complaints related to leaking of infusion sets, where patients experienced hyperglycemia with diabetic ketoacidosis. The Work Instruction # 3806111, "Validation of Test Methods (TMV)," version 9.0, effective February 10, 2025, requires validation of the water leak tester to show that the test "can consistently and accurately differentiate between the possible test states"; however, Ms. Victoria Canela, CAPA Manager, stated that the water leak test has not been validated.
We have reviewed your responses and conclude that they are not adequate. Your firm opened CAPA-2356512 to address this observation. Your firm provided Document No. M0666.0001, IQ/OQ/PQ Protocol for Validation of Test method for Leak in water Test, version 1.0. Your firm’s updated response states "This validation has been completed and was submitted as part of our initial response," however, the completed validation reports were not provided. The protocol includes (b)(4). However, the protocol does not describe how appropriate statistical methods for data collection and analysis are used nor define the criteria for revalidation. Your firm should revise your protocol to include (b)(4). The revised protocol should be provided for review. When available, your firm should also provide the completed validation reports. Your firm also plans to update the Test Method Validation procedure to add test method validation for all test methods and equipment used in product release, complaint investigations, and validation/revalidation activities by October 31, 2025. The revised procedure should be provided for review.
Finally, your firm plans to conduct a systematic review of all inspection and test equipment used for product release, complaint investigations, and validation/revalidation activities to identify any other unvalidated processes or equipment and remediate as needed by December 31, 2025. Your firm should ensure your review includes all manufacturing processes, including test methods, to ensure that any process which cannot be fully verified is validated. Your firm should provide the results of your systematic review, identifying the processes and test methods assessed and their validation status. If additional validations are needed your firm should provide a copy of the validation protocols, and if available, final reports.
2) Failure to adequately review and investigate complaints involving the possible failure of a device to meet any of its specifications, as required by 21 CFR 820.198(c). For example:
a. Your firm's complaint handling procedure, Document 3709030, Complaint handling, versions 12 - 19, effective July 22, 2020 – December 18, 2024 (current) allowed the closure of over 41,000 "Type 1" complaints, received between June 2023 and June 2025, without investigation, because lot numbers were missing. These uninvestigated complaints included allegations of leakage, loss of physical integrity, adhesive failures, infections, and death (Complaint 2204208).
b. In Complaint 2204208, a patient died with a blood glucose of 1.1. The customer provided the pump serial numbers, transmitter numbers, and material numbers for the reservoir and sensor, however your firm did not investigate because no lot number was provided and no attempt to collect the lot number was documented. The customer agreed to return product, but no effort to obtain the device was documented.
We have reviewed your responses and conclude that they are not adequate. Your firm initiated CAPA-2356421 to address this observation. While your firm acknowledges procedural deficiencies and has initiated some corrective actions including reopening complaints 2204208, 1997347, and 2051281, and conducting vigilance training (Document: Infusion Care Complaint Vigilance Awareness Refresher TrainingAttendance25SEP2025.pdf), the corrective actions are still pending. But your firm has not included a plan to address devices which do not conform to specifications which have already been distributed. Specifically, your firm’s plans do not include assessing the risk of distributed products and plans to notify or correct those distributed products which may include any user notifications, corrections, or removals of product already distributed that may be necessary to prevent a risk to health.
We acknowledge that in your November 14, 2025 response your firm submitted revised complaint handling procedures and work instructions, however, your firm has not yet provided evidence of implementation of these corrective actions and your firm also plans to conduct a retrospective review of using its revised procedures on complaint data involving leakage, loss of physical integrity, adhesive failure, and infection, and those coded as “cannot be determined” or “no malfunction” received since June 1, 2023, and remediate as needed, by March 2026.It is unclear if this retrospective review will include all complaints involving the possible failure of the device, labeling, or packaging to meet any of its specifications. Your firm should provide a justification for the sample size selected for the retrospective review. Your firm should provide the results of the retrospective review.
Your firm also plans to conduct a retrospective trend analysis to identify trends for each reported complaint issue by May 2026. The results of this review should be provided. Furthermore, your firm plans to conduct a retrospective review of complaints involving serious injury and/or death and remediate as needed by January 2026. Your firm also plans to conduct additional training regarding product specific information, complaint handling by May 2026. Your firm also plans to implement procedures to regularly audit complaint and “non-complaint” records by February 2026. The procedure and evidence of retraining should be provided for review.
3) Failure to establish and maintain procedures for implementing corrective and preventive action, as required by 21 CFR 820.100(a). For example:
a. CAPA 1627223 was initiated on February 23, 2023 to address a trend in complaints received for leaking Inset I and Inset II infusion set products. The investigation concluded that the root cause was (b)(4), specifically involving (b)(4) (affecting all manufacturing lines). Corrective actions were implemented (including (b)(4)) and the CAPA was closed as effective on March 14, 2025 based on a review of complaints received from 2023 and 2024 related to leaks; however, the effectiveness review was only based on a one month search of complaints and, as indicated in item two above, your firm excluded the 41,000 uninvestigated Type 1 complaints in its verification. Furthermore, the verification of effectiveness did not take into consideration whether leak failures were identified through the nonconformance process to ensure the investigation scope and root causes were adequate. Specifically, while CAPA 1627223 was in progress (Feb 2023 - Mar 2025), your firm continued to document the following seven nonconformance reports related to leak failures on Inset I and II products:
Nonconformance NumberDate InitiatedPart AffectedDescription
(b)(4)(b)(4)(b)(4)Inset: Leakage in water test Failure
(b)(4)(b)(4)(b)(4)Inset: Leak failure on (b)(4)
(b)(4)(b)(4)(b)(4)Leak on membrane in (b)(4) product (b)(4)
(b)(4)(b)(4)(b)(4)Leakage in water test failure on batch (b)(4) Product
(b)(4)(b)(4)(b)(4)Failure in leak test test in water (b)(4) Product
(b)(4)(b)(4)(b)(4)Failure on the leak test in water.
(b)(4)(b)(4)(b)(4)Failure on the leak test in water.

b. Between December 12, 2022, and October 12, 2023, your firm received 210 complaints reporting the Varisoft infusion set tubing detached from the connector resulting in a high blood glucose level, including 86 with reported harm of hyperglycemia. However, your firm determined a CAPA was not needed even though complaints, such as 1593110 and 1619522 were categorized as severity 5 (death or life-threatening harm which requires professional medical intervention) until August 2023 (CAPA 1723998) following a supplier corrective action report due to complaints that Varisoft infusion sets have easily detached from the connector and/or patient line separation. This led to a Class I Recall (FDA RES 93269) initiated on October 11, 2023, more than 11 months after your firm became aware of the product defect. CAPA 1723998 concluded that the product defect was caused by a defective manufacturing machine, corrective actions were implemented, and the CAPA was closed as effective on May 5, 2025, stating “It was found 4 complaints received after the corrective action however after quality analysis on retention samples the failure was not confirmed. Therefore, it can be concluded that the CAPA was effective.” However, review of complaint data revealed approximately 180 complaints were received during the same period used for verification of effectiveness (April 2023 – August 2024), that reported Varisoft infusion set tubing detaching from the connector, including approximately 80 complaints reporting hyperglycemia. These complaints were not included in the verification check because, as indicated in item two above, your firm’s complaint handling process inadequately categorizes and investigates complaints alleging failure of the device.
c. CAPA 2010953 was initiated on February 7, 2025, to address a trend of increasing complaints related to over 3,000 complaints of leaking of Extended Wear Infusion Sets (EWIS). The root cause was found to be that your firm did not conduct (b)(4) verification for the (b)(4) requirements to ensure the infusion set “stays on the patient for a usage time according to intended use after insertion”. The investigation also revealed that “(b)(4)”. The CAPA explains there is “(b)(4)…It is not clear which (b)(4)”. However, your firm failed to identify any corrective actions to address these device design deficiencies, and the only proposed corrective action is to update the (b)(4)”. Additionally, CAPA 2010953 was limited to the EWIS products; however, your firm identified that all other product families also do not have (b)(4). Furthermore, your firm’s Design Risk Assessment for the EWIS products, Document 3A02087 indicates that potential harm to patients (b)(4) as 5 (Life threatening or may result in death or disability of patient); however, your firm did not evaluate the potential impact to patients from defective products in the field.
d. CAPA 1832980 was initiated on February 21, 2024, to address complaint handling process deficiencies including miscategorized and incorrectly coded complaints. Corrective actions, including remediating complaint records were initiated in April 2024. Complaint numbers 1997347 and 2051281 which were received based on reports of “leaking at the site.” The records document that they had been remediated as part of CAPA 1832980; however, the complaints remain incorrectly coded as: Reported Complaint Issue = “Cannot be determined” and Malfunction Code = “No malfunction based on complaint information”.
e. CAPA 1668046 documented that the Inset Guard Ramp-Up product family failed to meet design requirements, including Product Requirement 110.14 ("(b)(4)"), yet your firm closed this CAPA as effective in April 2025 after implementing a "new" test method. However, complaint data shows your firm continued to receive approximately 5,000 complaints reporting leakage of Inset Guard Ramp-Up products through June 2025, including reportable malfunctions and serious injuries, indicating that the design verification testing remains inadequate.
We have reviewed your firm’s responses and conclude that they are not adequate. Your firm initiated CAPA-2356496 to address this observation. While your firm acknowledges CAPA deficiencies and has initiated some corrective actions including establishing (b)(4) starting August 27, 2025 (Documents: Meeting Minutes 27 Aug 2025, 10 Sep 2025, 24 Sep 2025), (b)(4) SOP 3702002 (Corrective and Preventive Action) and related procedures, the corrective actions are still pending. But your firm has not included a plan to address devices which do not conform to specifications which have already been distributed. Specifically, your firm's plans do not include assessing the risk of distributed products from the inadequately investigated CAPAs and any corrections or removals of product already distributed that may be necessary to prevent a risk to health.
Your firm plans to complete reassessment of CAPAs 1627223, 2152419, and 2010953 by December 2025, with CAPA 2010953 sent back to investigation on September 22, 2025. Your firm should submit the completed CAPA investigations with verified root causes and objective evidence of effective corrective actions for review.
Your firm also plans to conduct a retrospective review of product-related CAPAs closed since June 1, 2023, to ensure adequate verification of effectiveness and reopen as required by March 2026. However, it is unclear if this retrospective review will include assessment of distributed products that may require field action. Your firm should provide a justification for the scope and timeline of the retrospective CAPA review. Your firm should provide the results of the retrospective review.
Your firm also plans to (b)(4) by March 2026. The results of (b)(4) should be provided. Furthermore, your firm plans to implement (b)(4) to monitor CAPA progress by October 2025. Your firm also plans to establish a (b)(4) by November 2025 and (b)(4) by December 2025. The revised procedures should be provided for review.
Medical Device Reporting (MDR) Violations
1. Failure to report the information required by § 803.52 in accordance with the requirements of § 803.12(a), no later than 30 calendar days after the day that your firm received or otherwise became aware of information, from any source, that reasonably suggests that a device that your firm markets may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, as required by 21 CFR 803.50(a)(1). For example, the information included for Complaint 1997347 reasonably suggests that four of your firm’s AutoSoft XC infusion sets malfunctioned (i.e. device leakage) during use, resulting in elevated blood glucose readings (hyperglycemia) that required the administration of a corrective bolus via the pump. We believe this medical intervention was necessary to prevent permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to a body structure. Therefore, each of these four events meets the definition of a reportable serious injury under 21 CFR 803.3. Your firm became aware of these events on September 4, 2024, but failed to submit the corresponding MDR for each of the four reportable serious injury events.
We reviewed your firm’s response dated August 29, 2025, and conclude that it is not adequate. In the response, your firm acknowledged the observations and stated that they have initiated a comprehensive plan to address each of the observations. However, your firm did not provide a specific plan describing how the issue will be addressed, nor did they provide a timeline for completion.
The adequacy of your firm’s response dated September 29, 2025, cannot be determined at this time. The response states that your firm plans to revise its complaint handling and reporting process to address the issue, complete staff training, and will conduct a retrospective review of complaints and submit any newly identified MDRs as appropriate. However, your firm has not provided documentation or evidence to demonstrate that these systemic corrective actions have been fully implemented, including completion of the retrospective review, as these activities are still ongoing.
We acknowledge that your firm’s response dated November 14, 2025 included revised complaint handling and reporting procedures and work instructions, however, your firm has not provided evidence of implementation of these new procedures such as training and has not provided the results.
2. Failure to report the information required by § 803.52 in accordance with the requirements of §803.12(a), no later than 30 calendar days after the day that your firm received or otherwise became aware of information, from any source, that reasonably suggests that a device that it markets has malfunctioned and this device or a similar device that your firm markets would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, if the malfunction were to recur, as required by 21 CFR 803.50(a)(2). For example, the information for Complaint 2051281 reasonably suggests that two of your firm’s AutoSoft XC infusion sets malfunctioned (i.e. device leakage) during use. The serious injury MDR 3003442380-2024-05425, resulting from the same malfunction for the same device, has in the past caused or contributed to a serious injury, thereby establishing precedent that the malfunction would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. There is no information included for the complaint that justifies that the referenced malfunction would not be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Therefore, the information included for the referenced event represents a reportable malfunction under 21 CFR 803.3. Your firm became aware of these events on October 29, 2024, but failed to submit the corresponding MDR for each of the two reportable malfunction events.
We reviewed your firm’s response dated August 29, 2025, and conclude that it is not adequate. In the response, your firm acknowledged the observations and stated that they have initiated a comprehensive plan to address each of the observations. However, your firm did not provide a specific plan describing how the issue will be addressed, nor did they provide a timeline for completion.
The adequacy of your firm’s response dated September 29, 2025, cannot be determined at this time. The response states that your firm plans to revise its complaint handling and reporting process to address the issue, complete staff training, and will conduct a retrospective review of complaints and submit any newly identified MDRs as appropriate. However, your firm has not provided documentation or evidence to demonstrate that these systemic corrective actions have been fully implemented, including completion of the retrospective review, as these activities are still ongoing.
We acknowledge that your firm’s response dated November 14, 2025 included revised complaint handling and reporting procedures and work instructions, however, your firm has not provided evidence of implementation of these new procedures such as training and has not provided the results
Other federal agencies may take your compliance with the FD&C Act and its implementation regulations into account when considering the award of federal contracts. Additionally, should FDA determine that you have Quality System regulation violations that are reasonably related to premarket approval applications for Class III devices, such devices will not be approved until the violations have been addressed.
Please notify this office in writing within fifteen (15) business days from the date you receive this letter of the specific steps your firm has taken to address the noted violations, including an explanation of how your firm plans to prevent these or similar violations from occurring again. Include documentation of the corrections and/or corrective actions (which must address systemic problems) that your firm has taken. If your firm's planned corrective actions will occur over time, provide a timetable for implementation of those activities. If corrections and/or corrective actions cannot be completed within fifteen business days, state the reason for the delay and the time within which these activities will be completed. Please provide English translations of any documentation that is not in English to facilitate our review. We will notify you regarding the adequacy of your firm's responses and we may inspect your facility to verify that the appropriate corrections and/or corrective actions have been made. If you believe that your products are not in violation of the Act, include your reasoning and any supporting information for our consideration as part of your response.
Your firm's response should be sent via email CDRHEnforcement@fda.hhs.gov. Please include in the subject line: "CMS Case #719428" when replying. If you have any questions about the contents of this letter, please contact Ghazaleh Esmaili at Ghazaleh.esmailit@fda.hhs.gov.
Finally, this letter is not intended to be an all-inclusive list of the violations at your firm's facility. It is your firm's responsibility to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations administered by FDA. The specific violations noted in this letter and in the observations communicated at the conclusion of the Remote Regulatory Assessment may be symptomatic of serious problems in your firm's manufacturing and quality management systems. Your firm should investigate and determine the causes of any violations and take prompt actions to correct them and bring your devices into compliance.
Sincerely,
/S/
Courtney H. Lias, Ph.D.
Director
OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Devices
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
CC:
Courtney Smith
U.S. Agent
Courtney.smith@convatec.com
