WARNING LETTER
CMS # 709010
June 13, 2025
Dear Dr. Ken-Shwo Dai:
During an inspection of your firm located in Hsinchu City, Taiwan from February 24 through February 27, 2025, an investigator from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) determined that your firm manufactures the eBchek Blood Glucose Monitoring System and eBuricacid/Uritouch Blood Uric acid Monitoring System. Under section 201(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act), 21 U.S.C. § 321(h), these products are devices because they are intended for use in the diagnosis of disease or other conditions or in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease, or to affect the structure or function of the body.
This inspection revealed that the eBchek Blood Glucose Monitoring System is adulterated within the meaning of section 501(h) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 351(h), in that the methods used in, or the facilities or controls used for, their manufacture, packing, storage, or installation are not in conformity with the current good manufacturing practice requirements of the Quality System regulation found at Title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 820. We received a response from Ken-Shwo Dai, Ph.D., President and CEO, dated March 13, 2025, concerning our investigator’s observations noted on the Form FDA 483 (FDA 483), List of Inspection Observations, which was issued to your firm. We address this response below, in relation to each of the noted violations. These violations include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. Failure to adequately establish and maintain procedures for validating device design, as required by 21 CFR 820.30(g). For example, the eBchek Blood Glucose Monitoring System design was not validated using initial production units, lots, batches or their equivalents.
Specifically, your firm has no documentation of the parts or software version used in the manufacturing of the devices used for, or production records or dates of production, for units(s) used in the “development pilot product” tests, electrical safety test, and EMC test. Also, during the inspection, Mr. Chiu-Yi Huang (Ivan), R&D Manager, confirmed that your firm did not have the documentation for the devices used for testing.
The adequacy of your firm’s response dated March 13, 2025, cannot be determined at this time. Your response explained that your firm tried to retrieve the missing design validation, EMC, and electrical safety data by collecting archives of emails, test reports, engineering notes etc. but was not able to find them. Your firm explained that since no design changes have been made between the initial production unit (IPU) and the mass production unit (MPU) that, therefore, mass production units (MPU) can be considered representative of the initial production unit (IPU) and were used to conduct validation tests in place of the missing validation records since the IPU are considered too old to be reliably tested. In your response you provided a table (Functional Test and Analytical Performance Test Report Using MPU) that briefly describes studies performed on 10 MPU meters and references 12 test reports provided. The test reports provided included assessments of appearance, the voice feature, linearity, accuracy, precision, temperature /humidity etc. However, the columns in Appendix 1 (‘Retrieved documents/Explanation’, ‘Missing document(s)/Explanation’, ‘Attached in Form 483 response’) for the related items do not contain any information and therefore, the reason for the provided information is not clear or why other tests listed were not conducted on MPUs (Report of Drop Testing, Report of Interference Study etc.).
The electrical safety and EMC test reports that were reviewed during the inspection by the investigator appear to be referenced in Appendix 1; however, your firm did not provide the missing parts lists, software version, assembly method, and dates of assembly for the devices used in the electrical safety and EMC testing. Therefore, it is not clear how the observation has been addressed.
In addition, your firm stated in their response that “The mass production software version is the same as the initial production version, which is version V.2.5”. This is consistent with the test reports provided in your firm’s response (test reports 01-09) that specify the software version as 2.5. However, this differs from the version identified in the software validation report that was reviewed by the investigator during the inspection (version 2.1). Your firm did not explain or otherwise clarify the initial and current software versions and did not describe any changes from the original software version.
The table in Appendix 1 of your firm’s response references “2010/8/30 S-QA82401-09 v1.0 issued’ in the existing Device History File (DHF) document column and states, in the Attached in Form 483 response column, that “According to this QC Plan, the production process and inspection method of test strips, meter and control solutions were specified in specific SOP(s)”. The purpose of this procedure is unclear. Your firm did not provide an explanation of the purpose and scope of this procedure and how it evidences that the noted violation has been corrected.
Additionally, the test protocols and test results from the new analytical studies provided by your firm as evidence of the validation of your device’s linearity/accuracy, precision, and temperature/humidity (test reports 10, 11, and 12) differ significantly from those performance specifications that were reviewed and cleared by FDA in the eBchek Blood Glucose Monitoring System 510(k) clearance (k122181). For example:
i. The results from the repeatability study in your firm’s response differ significantly from the performance specifications reviewed and cleared in k122181 for the eBchek Blood Glucose Monitoring System. For example, in your response the %CV demonstrated in the within day precision study for Level 2 (51-100 mg/dL) and Level 3 (111-150 mg/dL) are 4.81% and 4.65% compared to the performance claims in your device’s 510(k) of 3.32-3.89%, and 3.24-3.35%, respectively.1 Similarly, the level 1 (30-50 mg/dL) results demonstrated a standard deviation (SD) of 3.67 mg/dL in the new study compared to the SD of 2.38-2.58 mg/dL established in your 510(k) (k122181).2
ii. The linearity/accuracy document provided in your response (test report 10) states that the study was intended to assess the accuracy of the eBchek and to determine the linearity. According to your test report, the comparator method used was the YSI 2500, which differs from the comparator method used to establish the linearity and accuracy performance characteristics of the device in K122181 (which used the YSI 2300).3.The use of an appropriate comparator method is essential to ensure that a device is appropriately validated as the results from a study using this comparator are not reliable and can lead to inaccurate results. Your firm has not provided any information describing how they have transitioned to a new comparator method while maintaining device performance as established in k122181 or provided any evidence demonstrating how the linearity/accuracy report provided, using the YSI 2500 as a comparator, is representative of the performance established using the YSI 2300 in the 510(k) and would be an appropriate comparator method. Therefore, it is unclear how the study report provided by your firm using this new comparator method supports or demonstrates your device’s performance as compared to the performance established in k122181 or how the violation has been addressed.
iii. In your response you used the following acceptance criteria in your newly conducted analytical studies (linearity/accuracy and precision) and these acceptance criteria are significantly broader than the acceptance criteria used to establish performance of your device in k1221814 and would not ensure that the device is manufactured to conform with the performance specifications established in k122181:
“Coefficient of variance (CV):
Glucose concentration < 100 mg/dL, SD<6mg/dL
Glucose concentration ≥ 100 mg/dL, CV<6%
Bias/Bias%
for glucose concentration < 100 mg/dl, the Bias should be within ±15mg/dL
for glucose concentration ~ 100 mg/dl, the Bias% should be within±15%”
The analytical data provided by your firm is significantly different compared to the performance specifications that were cleared during the premarket review of your device in k1221815; therefore, your firm has not demonstrated that you have adequately established and maintained procedures for design validation of the device. You should conduct a retrospective review of all change(s) to your device, including changes in performance in light of the recent data provided in your response, and consider whether such changes could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of your device and include in your response your firm’s findings and conclusion.
To prevent similar violation for future device designs your firm revised and provided "PRD73101 Design and Development Management Procedure", which now includes a DHF List and component and specification traceability table. Your firm plans to conduct training sessions for current and future R&D personnel to ensure they fully understand and adhere to the updated procedure. Your firm also plans to conduct a review of other DHFs to identify similar deficiencies and address any gaps. A summary of this review should be provided.
2. Failure to adequately establish and maintain procedures for receiving, reviewing, and, evaluating complaints by a formally designated unit, as required by 21 CFR 820.198(a). For example, 21 CFR 820.3 defines complaint to mean “any written, electronic, or oral communication that alleges deficiencies related to the identity, quality, usability, reliability, safety, effectiveness, or performance of a device after it is released for distribution”. However, Customer Complaint Handling Procedure, P-SD72301, issued on June 20, 2018, states sources of customer complaints can be written or verbal “when the company’s products, service quality or other factors cause customer dissatisfaction.” Limiting investigations of complaints that only cause customer dissatisfaction is inadequate. As of the date of the inspection, your firm has not documented receiving any complaints for blood glucose monitoring systems which is unusual for this type of device.
We reviewed your firm’s response and concluded that it is not adequate. Your firm identified the root cause of this violation as personnel not being aware of the type of communications which require documentation as a complaint and the complaint handling procedure being inadequate. Your firm provided an updated "P-SD72301 Customer Complaint Handling Procedure," dated March 12, 2025, which includes the definition of complaint in section 2.2 which conforms with FDA definition. Your firm completed the corrective action on March 12, 2025, by finishing training sessions for all relevant personnel to ensure their understanding of the new requirements. These were completed and documented in "R-QA85201-01 CAPA Form No. FDA-2025-01" and "R-AD62201-06 Employee Training Score Sheet" which were provided for review. Your firm also plans to implement training to ensure new hires receive training on the updated complaint handling procedures by integrating it into the existing Quality System training for new employees. Your firm revised the HR's "R-AD62201-02 Employee Training Assessment Record Form" to specify the training on department-specific quality procedures for new hires to ensure completeness. Your firm’s response did not include a retrospective review of communications, including those previously categorized as “inquires”, to determine if those should be retrospectively handled as complaints.
3. Failure to adequately establish and maintain procedures to ensure that all purchased or otherwise received product and services conform to specified requirements, including quality requirements, that must be met by suppliers, contractors, and consultants, as required by 21 CFR 820.50. For example, during the inspection, Mr. Chin-En (Ryan) Tai, Sales & Marketing Director, stated that your firm has no agreement with the US distributor to collect complaints and send them to Visgeneer, Inc. for evaluation in accordance with 21 CFR 820.198.
We reviewed your firm’s response and concluded that it is not adequate. Your firm provided a signed Quality Agreement with (b)(4), that was finalized on March 10, 2025. The agreement includes complaint handling which requires (b)(4) (the “product owner”) to forward customer complaints to Visgeneer (the “supplier”). Your firm also provided P-SD72201, Order Management Procedures, dated March 12, 2025, which was revised to incorporate the requirement of signing a Quality Agreement (including complaint handling) with distributors, ensuring that complaint handling responsibilities are clearly defined. Your firm updated the training documents to conduct training sessions for all relevant personnel to ensure their understanding of the new requirements. These were completed and documented in "R-QA85201-01 CAPA Form No. FDA-2025-01" and "R-AD62201-06 Employee Training Score Sheet" which were provided for review. Your firm ensured that new hires receive training on updated complaint handling procedures by integrating it into the existing Quality System training for new employees by revising the HR's "RAD62201-02 Employee Training Assessment Record Form."
However, the supplier quality agreement with (b)(4) covers the (b)(4) but does not include the eBChek Blood Glucose Monitoring System. Your firm also did not include a systemic corrective action to include reviewing all supplier agreements to ensure that all purchased or otherwise received product and services conform to specified requirements, including quality requirements, that must be met by their other suppliers, contractors, and consultants.
Corrections and Removals Violation(s)
Our inspection also revealed that your firm’s eBuricacid/Uritouch Blood uric acid monitoring system devices are misbranded under section 502(t)(2) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 352(t)(2), in that your firm failed or refused to furnish material or information respecting the device that is required by or under section 519 of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 360i, and 21 CFR Part 806 – Medical Devices; Reports of Corrections and Removals. Significant violations include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. Failure to submit any report required within 10 working days of initiating a correction or removal, as required by 21 CFR 806.10. For example: after FDA informed you on October 30, 2023, that your eBuricacid device requires a 510(k) premarket notification before marketing and distributing in the US, you informed the distributor in the US market to remove the affected product from Amazon and any other online or physical sales outlets. Marketing these devices in the US without marketing clearance is a violation of 21 CFR 862.9(a). CDRH has determined that the use of eBuricacid without FDA marketing clearance may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences, or an outcome where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote. This action meets the definition of a medical device correction or removal initiated to remedy a violation which may present a risk to health, for which you are required to submit a Report of Correction or Removal to FDA. As of June 10, 2025, you did not submit a Medical Device Report of Correction or Removal to FDA for this action.
Your firm’s response to the FDA-483 is not adequate. The response does not address the requirements of 21 CFR 806, since the failure to report was not listed on the FDA-483. CDRH cannot determine whether your Notification System Operating Procedure, P-QA85101 would lead you to submit a Medical Device Report of Correction or Removal when a device issue meets the reporting criteria. You have not submitted a Report of Correction or Removal to FDA as of June 10, 2025.
Given the serious nature of the violations of the Act, glucose monitoring devices and other clinical chemistry devices manufactured by your firm are subject to refusal of admission under section 801(a) of the Act, 21 U.S.C. § 381(a), in that they appear to be adulterated. As a result, FDA is taking steps to refuse entry of these devices into the United States, known as “detention without physical examination,” until these violations are addressed. In order to remove the devices from detention, your firm should provide a written response to this Warning Letter as described below and address the violation(s) described in this letter. We will notify you regarding the adequacy of your firm’s response(s) and the need to re-inspect your firm’s facility to verify that the appropriate corrections and/or corrective actions have been made.
Other federal agencies may take your compliance with the FD&C Act and its implementing regulations into account when considering the award of federal contracts. Additionally, should FDA determine that you have Quality System regulation violations that are reasonably related to premarket approval applications for Class III devices, such devices will not be approved until the violations have been addressed.
Please notify this office in writing within fifteen business days from the date you receive this letter of the specific steps your firm has taken to address the noted violations, including an explanation of how your firm plans to prevent these violations, or similar violations, from occurring again. Include documentation of the corrections and/or corrective actions (which must address systemic problems) that your firm has taken. If your firm’s planned corrections and/or corrective actions will occur over time, please include a timetable for implementation of those activities. If corrections and/or corrective actions cannot be completed within fifteen business days, state the reason for the delay and the time within which these activities will be completed. Please provide a translation of documentation not in English to facilitate our review. If you believe that your products are not in violation of the FD&C Act, include your reasoning and any supporting information for our consideration as part of your response.
Your firm’s response should be sent via email to CDRHEnforcement@fda.hhs.gov. Refer to CMS case # 709010 when replying. If you have any questions about the contents of this letter, please contact: Sreenivasa Rao Ramisetty at sreenivasa.ramisetty@fda.hhs.gov.
Finally, you should know that this letter is not intended to be an all-inclusive list of the violations at your firm’s facility. It is your firm’s responsibility to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations administered by FDA. The specific violations noted in this letter and in the Inspectional Observations, FDA 483, issued at the close of the inspection may be symptomatic of serious problems in your firm’s manufacturing and quality management systems. Your firm should investigate and determine the causes of any violations and take prompt actions to address any violations and bring the products into compliance.
Sincerely,
/S/
Courtney H. Lias, Ph.D.
Director
OHT 7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
CC:
Jerry Doane
US Agent
Pragmatic Compliance dba FDAbasics
usagent@fdabasics.com
____________________________
1 See FDA’s decision summary for K122181 available on FDA’s website at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/cdrh_docs/reviews/K122181.pdf.
2 https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/cdrh_docs/reviews/K122181.pdf
3 See FDA’s Decision Summary for your device available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/cdrh_docs/reviews/K122181.pdf.
4 See FDA’s Decision Summary for your device available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/cdrh_docs/reviews/K122181.pdf.
5 See FDA’s Decision Summary for your device available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/cdrh_docs/reviews/K122181.pdf.
